## 20191012 Second Meeting

#### attendees
* @punkmonk
* @glyph
* @kira
* @K@Tkop
* @benhylau
* @morgan
* @yurko

#### agenda
* purpose of the group
* intros
* free discussion (@punkmonk would love to hear more from the tomeshnet crew about there work!)
* project plugs / calls for haalp!
* next steps (can we partner a people up to support personal interests here)

#### next steps
- setup community-infra git repo (@punkmonk)
  - add folx for collaboration
- initial focus is ssb pub / server
  - scripts, docs & faq for deploying and maintaining a pub
- create ssb pub faq (@glyph)
  - glyph: i'll generate a questionnaire for current pub operators and compile answers

#### notes

- benhylau shared https://github.com/tomeshnet/p2p-internet-workshop
- glyph asked ben about resources around maintenance of services
  - ben: much of this is currently institutional knowledge (tomesh)
  - ben: there are also chat servers for live support
- k@tkop offering their video editing skills
- kira wanting to collab on improving the git-ssb onboarding process

#### cool links
----
