# Community Infra: 4

## Agenda

### follow up
- GH Issue on PeachCloud to track packaging
- GH Issue on a new repo for survey questions - @glyph
- migrate minutes to GH

### new business
-
-


## Attendees
- punkmonk
- glyph

## Minutes
- @glyph: no movement yet on packaging, will look at which peachcloud repo this should belong in
- @punkmonk: survey repo is up
- @glyph: will take a look at styling and reach out for feedback on additional questions. maybe from @arj
- @punkmonk/glyph: leave the minutes where they are for now
- @punkmonk: still has screencast and media in the queue just looking for the time.
- @punkmonk: will take a look at ssb-pub by @mikey
- @glyph in the future we could be contributing to other projects like ssb-viewer, and the work done now could launch into that

## Next Steps
- @glyph: continue with package tracking issue
- @glyph: touching up issue template, talking to arj for feedback
- @punkmonk: investigate @mikey's work on ssb-pub:v3
- @punkmonk: organization stuff
- @glyph: looking forward to getting survey out
