# community infrastructure learning group

## attendees
- austin (@punkmonk)
- @glyph
- @darkdrgn2k
- @RangerMauve
- @benhylau

## agenda

### old business
- Survey updates
  - 16 participants to date
- ssb-pub:v3 overview

### new business

 - direction of p2p-comms
   - how do we best use these calls
   - how do we continue to collaborate in between

## minutes
- @glyph: would like to provide details around the survey, maybe end of the month?
- @punkmonk: how should we present the data? what data points? what plugins are popular? what versions are popular
- @glyph: some of the data might lend themselves to graphical representation. ranges of memory and blob store etc.
- a wild @RangerMauve appears!
- @punkmonk: catching @Mauve up with what we've been discussing
- @punkmonk: we wanted to know, what's the mvp scuttlebutt pub setup? might be a shell script. we also wanted to provide something which would help people understand what was going on under the hood (easy to install but also allows documentation of internals - as opposed to Docker which is more like a black box)
- @punkmonk: mikey rewrote his ssb pub. links at bottom of the minutes. link to the new ssb-pub branch on github (below).
- @punkmonk: before i go further, any more feedback about the survey?
- @Mauve: list of commands to help answer each question would be helpful
- @glyph: great idea, i'll do that
- @punkmonk: ssb can be a challenge to run in docker
- @yurko: we've added ssb to the torontomesh prototype repo. the vision of the prototype node was to use scripts (look at to see what's happening). huge problem: upgrades are impossible. no framework for upgrade path. we tried uninstall path but you run into dependies problems etc. we're looking at possibly migrating over to deb packages. but also have it transparent where the builds for packages are transparent, but using debian package manager to work on upgrades, installs etc.
- @punkmonk: i was super excited when you (@yurko) and @ben were on one of the earlier calls. excited to see where you end up with that direction.
- @punkmonk: are you basically packaging all those scripts?
- @yurko: kind of. we're separating modules so they aren't overwriting each other (allows clean uninstall). i've linked a babel build example.
- @punkmonk: what's babel?
- @yurko: protocol.
- @ben: debian packages applies restrictions which force us to do things a certain way. for example, there's a pre-install and post-install, in the middle you can put file in. when you do `apt-get install ...` it runs those install steps. it forces us to do things a standard way, i think that's valuable.
- @punkmonk: going back to ssb-pub: it's a script install but the setup was really easy to do (giving it a hostname, publishing 'about' message to let others know about the pub etc.) _punkmonk gives a demo_
- @mauve: i want to rewind to the convo about debian packages. i really loved going through the cjdns-pi repo and looking at the actual scripts. that taught me a lot about what the whole project was trying to do. lots of useful commands. i'd be a little worried about: on the one hand, management of deb packages would help management, on the other hand, the scripts allow such accessbile hackability and transparency.
- @yurko: all the scripts that build the packages will still be in repos. that code wouldn't be burried away. github repo uses TravisCI to build packages.
- @ben: we've argued about this in torontomesh. i wanted to keep them as install scripts initially but the scripts start fighting each other after time. you start having conflicts and one script which install multiple things. i think it's a scalability issue. we really have to make sure it's easy to reference the scripts that build the deb package (for every package). then, if i want to make a change, i know how to tinker. deb packages often feel like you can only install or uninstall. i think it's possible to have both.
- @yurko: we're also trying to create a plain vanilla package (like babel) and then a second torontomesh package for our config. we've been battling about this problem. we don't want to recreate the wheel. use something tested and true.
- @yurko: we're working on mesh orange.
- @punkmonk: ben, how do you know how to tinker
- @ben: partially documentational. i think there also needs to be a pipeline of where things need to flow. maybe yurko can post a build script.
- @yurko: for prototype or debian?
- @ben: debian. the custom script used.
- @yurko: we're not that far yet - prototype stage. goes to github, downloads files, compiles it, puts it in a folder and makes a debian repo out of it
- @ben: multiple folders, each contains a package, TravisCI builds. currently uploading to github releases.
- @yurko: i've got a script that will compile packages for each architecture. rsyncs to a server. pipeline still under construction (proof of concept)
- @yurko: this model allows you to update and uninstall packages.
- @ben: debian package structure forces you to do certain things (like having uninstall as part of the package). what mikey has, where do i get the debian packages? on github releases?
- @punkmonk: he doesn't have it as a package, just in a github repo. it's his ssb-pub repo (used to be docker repo, there's v3 branch using systemd instead of docker). it's not finished and i don't think it's fully functional.
- @punkmonk: you have to install node, make, buildessentials etc. not a one-liner.
- @ben: what are the install steps? start new droplet, `git pull` the repo?
- @punkmonk: install node and buildessential etc. not super user-friendly.
- @ben: install.sh can be made into a debian package pretty easily. the `npm` thing is a bit tricky
- @yurko: you put the npm dependency folders into each package
- @ben: the way to install node on arm vs. x86 is a little different. weird hacks on prototype to make it work on different architectures. how to handle this with debian packages?
- @yurko: it would be nice to have a node debian package that works
- @yurko: hardest part with repo will be cross-compiling
- @ben: what is our goal here? is it to have a debian package?
- @punkmonk: initial goal was a bash script with documentation within. the way the packages are being described is that we could still have both? maybe now the question is, what should be script look like?
- @ben: how much do we care about the target architecture? droplet and rpi are very different
- @punkmonk: initially we want to do the thing that gets us 80% there. satisfy a large chunk of folx needs. after that, go for remaining 20%. does that seem reasonable?
- @yurko: on previous projects we had a lot of feedback from folx who were in low-connectivity contexts and yet our system was geared towards a high-connectivity environment. who would benefit most from this?
- @ben: workshop stuff is mean't for rpi (hosting workshop in places without internet). when you make a package, it doesn't include dependency repos. i used docker and tar'd up the whole container. since then, i've found out how to walk the dependency tree and save all the required packages. not install through `apt-get` but from `dpkg -i`
- @yurko: debian also allows install with `apt-get` pointing to removable media
- @ben: yggdrasil builds packages for all their targets. we want to be able to pull packages from other people and consolidate them on an rpi
- @yurko: some people make packages but only target specific architectures.
- @ben: we want to be able to publish our own packages and use packages from others when available. long term, have a repo for torontomesh which pools all packages.
- @yurko: we looked at pre-baking an rpi sd card. challenges led us to pause that project for now
- @punkmonk: would it make sense for this group to spend some time discussing what our roadmap should be? can we agree on an mvp roadmap that we can put on the repo. something to drive remaining activity for the group. as we discuss things, there are things we're starting to talk about: terraform, pre-baked images. i think that goes beyond my initial vision but it also highlights my lack of knowledge of how to reach a broad swathe of the population. we're coming up on the hour mark. i'm happy to stay (enjoying the discussion). how can we steer the direction of the discussion between calls? highlighting exactly what we want to do. i think we have now discussed things enough to know that we're headed in a similar direction. maybe the point of the group should be generating a roadmap. how do other people feel about that?
- @ben: i think that could be good homework for the next 2 week: write does something we personally want to see the group accomplish in some timeline. then we can discuss next meeting?
- @punkmonk: i'd love the conversation to continue between meetings. i've been super busy getting comfortable with a new job but i'm coming out of that and would like to get more active.
- @ben: next meeting on 21st (close to holiday season). how do we feel?
- @glyph: how about we meet again on 7 jan?
- all agree
- @ben: let's share our answers to the homework by 21 december
- @benhylau: this is how to download all the dependencies of debian packages so they can be locally installed without internet access https://github.com/benhylau/mesh-workshop/tree/master/src/shared/deb

## next steps

 - each member to post their vision for the group (roadmap) on a github repo by 21 december
 - @punkmonk will post link in the chat

## link
- https://github.com/austinfrey/p2p-community-infrastructure
- https://github.com/austinfrey/pub-operator-survey
- https://github.com/ahdinosaur/ssb-pub/tree/v3
- https://github.com/runtimejs-comm
- https://tomesh.net/projects/#mesh-orange
- https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/packages/blob/master/babeld/build.sh
- https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/packages/blob/master/babeld/build.sh
- https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/packages/blob/master/babeld-tomesh/build.sh
- https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/packages
- https://github.com/darkdrgn2k/packages/blob/master/.travis.yml
- https://github.com/tomeshnet/prototype-cjdns-pi/blob/master/scripts/ssb/install

Link to spreadsheet with aggregated survey results (WIP):

- https://cryptpad.fr/sheet/#/2/sheet/edit/rK0Kmje3xobqiTc4wWCX2+-5/
