## 20190928 First Meeting :)

#### attendees

* austin (ssb: @punkmonk)
* arj
* glyph

#### agenda

* Intros
* Purpose of the group
* gather feedback on initial direction for the group
* next steps

#### notes

austin: working on Science Technology Math Art Technology programs in local schools, want to learn how to safely and reliably deploy local, community-owned infra

glyph: have seen people struggle with lack of documentation, resources. mostly keen to contribute towards that

arj: we have clients, we need to work on setting up and maintaining infrastructure. something which people who are not technically adept in infra can use, as well as others.

austin: what are we hoping to do as a group?

arj: start with good docs for setting up an ssb pub. that would then allow easier scripting. also creates a blueprint for future add-ons.

glyph: would be good to start small and focused. ssb pub seems like a good start. get docs right first then allow tooling etc.

austin: keen to keep scope narrow. easy to follow along. any doc tool recommendations?

glyph: about to look at mdbook (rust implementation of gitbook).

arj: something with markdown which can be exported to html etc.

arj: lots of power in basic shell scripting for config.

arj: let's keep docs on git and git-ssb.

austin: i feel like git-ssb doesn't get the attention it deserves. it's awesome! will be great to lower the barrier of entry.

austin: arj, in terms of shell scripts, should we focus on just ssb-server initially?

arj: have been working on a simple http ssb client running in the browser. there are some plugins (on top of ssb-server) which make for a nice experience.

arj: maybe good to create an install script for the core ("kernel" / base) - small, not doing a lot. then on the opposite end, the 'kitchen sink' kind of script

austin: is it ok to continue communications on ssb (public).

glyph: yes.

arj: yes.

arj: lots of people on the gathering but didn't all show up. let's share notes and ask those folx if they want to be involved.

glyph: let's discuss a modular approach to sharing the work. if new folx come along during the process it will be great to have a way to integrate them quickly and help them to contribute.

austin: would be really nice to partner people together on different tasks and topics. maybe there's a couple folx who are keen on learning about yggdrasil, they could work together to document that etc.

smiles + goodbyes.

#### Individual Goals

##### punkmonk
* learn how to safely/effectively run p2p infra for a community
* manage/maintain real infrastructure for the community long term
  - i would suggest NetXMS -igel
* create/manage up to date documentation for managing a community p2p node

#### Next Steps

* post to invite others to participate and to share notes (austin)
* identify a good documentation tool
* pub questions list into git repo (glyph)
  * to serve as skeleton of faq
* shell scripts for deploying a pub


### Goals
* collaboratively learn how to safely/effectively run p2p infra for a community
* maintain nodes that can be relied upon in the long term
* provide feedback from the experience in the form of documentation or blueprints

### Potential Services
* cryptpad instance
* dat/cabal seeding
* ssb pub
* ssb-tunnel
* ssb-email bridge
* dnssb
* ssb-viewer
* git-ssb-web
* cjdns
* yggdrasil
* tor
* bittorrent
* MVD
